as a politics follower you'll no doubt
remember the 2019 to 20 Hong Kong
protests when people clashed with the
police over China's Democratic Crackdown
since then though the ccp's clampdown
has only got worse with a further
National Security Law introduced in
March 2024 moreover Hong Kong's economy
once one of the world's leading
Financial hubs has also slowed with tens
of thousands of workers particularly
young people leaving the city every year
so in this video we'll take a look at
Hong Kong Democratic and economic crises
why things are getting even worse and
what this means going
[Music]
forward before we start if you haven't
already please consider subscribing and
ringing the bell to stay in the loop and
be notified when we release new videos
but first let's start with some history
from 1841 until the end of the 20th
century Hong Kong was a British colony
in the 1950s after Cold War Era San on
Mainland China meant it was no longer a
reliable trade partner Hong Kong became
a successful textiles exporter and had a
series of trade deals with the UK in the
1970s Hong Kong's GDP grew at an average
of 88.9% and in the 1980s it averaged
7.4% in 1984 the UK and China signed the
Sino British joint declaration agreeing
to transfer sovereignty of Hong Kong to
China in 1997 after this Hong Kong was
administered under China's one country
two systems principle and the basic law
becoming a special administrative region
of China with its own legal and
political systems until 2047 when it
will be fully returned to the mainland
anyway after 1997 Hong Kong's economy
began to slow it took a few external
hits first the 1998 Asian financial
crisis then the bursting of the it
NASDAQ bubble in 2000 then the 2003 SARS
outbreak while it managed to bounce back
each time Hong Kong struggled to keep up
with China's econ iic boom and its GDP
as a share of China's began to decline
slumping to just 2% in
2021 this isn't to say that Hong Kong
wasn't doing well economically but
rather that mainland China was expanding
more rapidly cheaper labor in China made
its manufacturing industry more
competitive and Hong Kong was forced to
move up the value chain becoming a
Global Financial and Professional
Services Hub just look at the huge
presence of foreign companies in 2007
more than 3,800 foreign firms around
three times the number today had chosen
the city as their Regional headquarters
but over the past decade things have
taken a downturn there's two main
interrelated issues here Hong Kong's
Democratic rule of law crisis and its
economic crisis Hong Kong's Democratic
crisis started properly in 2014 when the
CCP proposed a set of reforms to Hong
Kong's electoral system that would allow
them to pre-screen candidates for the
highest office the Hong Kong chief
executive this protest sometimes called
stage managed democracy was viewed as a
form of democratic backsliding
overriding Hong Kong's rights to
universal suffrage subsequently China
further intensified its Crackdown on
free speech with the Hong Kong
government's proposed introduction of
another bill in 2019 the extradition
Bill sparking another lot of violent
protests the extradition Bill threatened
to have Hong kongers tried in mainland
China which could have subjected them to
a different legal system once again
eroding their rights in the basic law
while the bill was ultimately scrapped
yet another one the National Security
Law known as article 23 was enacted in
2020 with a further law passed in 2024
under article 23 crimes like treason
sedition and subversion can be punished
with a maximum sentence of 10 years in
prison and this week dozens of activists
from the Hong Kong 47 were given jail
time for their role in organizing an
unofficial opposition primary election
in
2020 China likely views article 23 as a
natural step in the integration of Hong
Kong into the mainland but for Hong
kongers it's a form of Oppression and
has prompted much International outcry
in Practical terms article 23 has also
led to an exodus of people from their
territory in 2024 alone five foreign
judges have left Hong Kong's Top Court
including former UK Supreme Court Judge
Lord Jonathan supon who warned in June
that the city was slowly becoming a
totalitarian state voter participation
has also declined with turnout at the
2023 district council elections
plummeting to a record low anyway now
let's move back to the economy Hong
Kong's economy was already battered by
the covid-19 pandemic and tourist
numbers are still not back to the
pre-pandemic levels the ccp's ultr
strict zero covid policy meant that
restrictions were in place well later
than in most countries further hurting
business but Hong Kong's economic crisis
was also worsened by the National
Security Law article 23's vague
definition of State Secrets has spooked
foreign firms as normal business
activities like auditing financial
analysis and due diligence could
feasibly trespass into the realm of
State Secrets businesses duly saw this
as a risk and the number of
multinational companies with regional
headquarters in Hong Kong fell from
1,541 in 2019 to
1,336 in 2023 with us firms accounting
for one of the biggest drops employees
are also leaving at the height of zero
covid in early 2022 tens of thousands of
financial sector professionals left Hong
Kong for places like Singapore moreover
in fear of article 23 Hong Kong's many
young workers are also immigrating
shrinking its labor force a recent
survey conducted by the Hong Kong
General Chamber of Commerce found that
74% of companies are facing a talent
shortage on top of this the hangsang
index which measures Hong Kong stock
market has been steadily falling since
2021 investment in property is slowing
and Hong Kong's GDP growth rate is
projected to fall over the coming years
too so what's next for Hong Kong well
there were a few trends that will likely
continue over the coming years first the
CCP will further intensify its Crackdown
on Democracy not just within Hong Kong
but also abroad there are emerging
reports about Chinese transnational
repression for example in 2022 at the
Chinese Consulate in Manchester Hong
konger Bob Chan was dragged by his hair
and beaten by staff forcing the UK to
expel six Chinese diplomats secondly
young people will continue to leave the
territory departures from Hong Kong
mostly to other parts of China now
outnumber Mainland arrivals by almost 3
to one but workers are also moving
abroad in 2020 the UK introduced a
special bno Visa for Hong Kong which has
so far seen 150,000 Hong kongers moved
to the UK this disenfranchisement is
compounded by the fact that mainlanders
immigrating to Hong Kong often have the
upper hand in job applications as they
speak better Mandarin and have networks
in China ultimately China is steadily
increasing its control over Hong Kong
while erasing Western influence we
should however point out that Rising us
China tensions are also a fundamental
cause behind Hong Kong's downfall for
decades Hong Kong's geopolitical
neutrality was the foundation of its
freedom and prosperity but this era is
now very clearly coming to an end now
obviously all of that is is pretty
complicated but hopefully our analysis
has made it a little clearer making
videos like this requires a lot of
effort and research to uncover what's
really going on before then summarizing
it into something that makes sense to
everyone but that's an expensive process
running TDR this year has cost just
under 800,000 which when your main
product is free YouTube videos is quite
a lot of money if you want to support
our journalism in 2025 then one way to
do so is picking up a copy of our
magazine too long that's because buying
too long doesn't just get you a high
quality magazine it also allows you to
invest in independent journalism and
join us in shaping the future of news
now this most recent issue focuses on
the 29 biggest elections of the year
making sure you understand what really
happened in this Mega election year and
commemorating one of the biggest years
in news we don't just discuss elections
though we also run through China's trade
issues Biden's successes and failures
and the UK's new opposition leader and
the of the wars in Ukraine and Gaza plus
the fact it's a magazine also means
we're not constrained by the time limits
or algorithms imposed by YouTube unlike
fleeting news cycles and algorithmic
feeds T long offerss thought-provoking
analysis and comprehensive coverage
that's truly worth holding if you're
convinced you have three more decisions
to make first do you want a physical or
digital copy the physical is a
highquality 60-page perfect bound
magazine shipped right to your door the
digital is slightly cheaper especially
if shipping is a concern your second
choice is the standard or Premium
Edition the standard is just a copy of
the magazine while premium also gets you
access to our monthly behind the-scenes
podcast the bullpen where we break down
all of the production of to long and TLT
more generally and you'll get your name
printed in the thank you section of the
magazine finally do you want to
subscribe if you do you'll get a copy of
twoo long every 4 months meaning you'll
never miss an issue plus you'll also get
25% off every copy as long as you stay
subscribed if you can subscribing also
gives us a reliable income stream which
is super useful for us regardless of
which option you choose you can buy a
copy right now at to long. newws or
click the link in the description thanks
for your support and thanks for backing
too long